# MODEL1302180002: MODEL1302180002

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1302180002.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1302180002.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Sanjuan2013 - Evolution of HIV T-cell epitope, control model

Control model in which the virus targets a nonimmune cell type C (e.g.,
hepatocytes, epithelial cells, etc.), instead of T H cells.

This model is described in the article:

[Immune activation promotes evolutionary conservation of T-cell epitopes in
HIV-1.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/23565057)

Sanjuán R, Nebot MR, Peris JB, Alcamí J.

PLoS Biol. 2013 Apr;11(4):e1001523

Abstract:

The immune system should constitute a strong selective pressure promoting
viral genetic diversity and evolution. However, HIV shows lower sequence
variability at T-cell epitopes than elsewhere in the genome, in contrast with
other human RNA viruses. Here, we propose that epitope conservation is a
consequence of the particular interactions established between HIV and the
immune system. On one hand, epitope recognition triggers an anti-HIV response
mediated by cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTLs), but on the other hand, activation
of CD4(+) helper T lymphocytes (TH cells) promotes HIV replication.
Mathematical modeling of these opposite selective forces revealed that
selection at the intrapatient level can promote either T-cell epitope
conservation or escape. We predict greater conservation for epitopes
contributing significantly to total immune activation levels
(immunodominance), and when TH cell infection is concomitant to epitope
recognition (trans-infection). We suggest that HIV-driven immune activation in
the lymph nodes during the chronic stage of the disease may offer a favorable
scenario for epitope conservation. Our results also support the view that some
pathogens draw benefits from the immune response and suggest that vaccination
strategies based on conserved TH epitopes may be counterproductive.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL1302180002](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1302180002) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


